we're with Lisa Pease she's been a
researcher into these assassinations of
RFK and Martin Luther King and JFK for
over 25 years she'll be coming out with
a book in September called a lie too big
to fail about the Robert Kennedy
assassination I'm very excited about
that and she also blogs at real history
archives dot blog spot.com so thanks for
talking to me today Lisa oh happy to be
here so I thought we'd I've always been
interested in we're gonna talk about
James Angleton today I've always been
interested in some of his early years so
if we can talk a little bit about that
sure his father worked for National Cash
Register in Italy
and I believe he might even spent some
time there as well as in the United
States but he was Mexican grew up in
Arizona and you know for most of the
part and you know at that time the
Mexican made you an outsider in American
society but he was determined to be an
insider it was very bright he went to
Yale he was picked by a professor Norman
Pearson who saw a lot of talent in him
and Norman Pearson recommended that he
joined the OSS the Office of Strategic
Services which was FDR's President
Roosevelt's forerunner agency to the CIA
it was the intelligence arm you know the
covert operations arm if you will during
World War two and so that's kind of
where angleton got his start he was
assigned to the x/2 branch which was
counterintelligence operations and first
in Great Britain and then again he was
moved to Italy at one point and he
learned early on to make friends in
other parts of the government and so he
you know he had this whole ring of
informants telling him what was going on
in other arms of the government and here
is buddies in some cases I don't want to
say set up people and took them down
from within for example in just Morley's
book he talks about it and incident
where angle did basically what they say
bird some agents that they felt were
playing for the other side and that
apparently got those
agents killed so Angleton was known
early on as somebody who would kind of
have a take-no-prisoners approach and in
later years and funny one of his fellow
CIA co-workers said I'd always go into
Angleton's office fingering my insurance
policy
meaning he never knew people leave his
office alive or not and you know I
laughed but it's not really a funny
thing you know if you're afraid somebody
could kill you at any moment
it's not like angleton would kill
anybody personally but he had assets who
would gel for him and this is one of the
things I think people people think of a
CI is like this highly regimented
organization where there's you know like
a manager and employees and it really
isn't like that or at least it
definitely wasn't like that during the
OSS phase and the early days of the CIA
it was more like a bunch of rich kids
with a lot of money running their own
operations and making up their own rules
as they went along ankles in had access
to a lot of money in fact he paid people
on the side to run is what they call
singleton agents meaning they didn't
report directly to the CIA they reported
only to him and he would just give them
money and tell them what he wanted to do
and then go do it and then they would
report back in but it was done and he
had journalists on his payroll as well
as you know other spies and assassins
and you know a very well known was a
very creative independent character kind
of answered to no one and so he got his
big start when Eisenhower was elected
cuz Eisenhower then appointed Allen
Dulles the head of the CIA and Allen
Dulles was very good friend James
Angleton was then appointed to head at
that time what was called staff a which
was foreign intelligence and a guy named
bill Harvey was assigned a staff C which
was counterintelligence and then over
the years angleton and Harvey they had
time of friendship and in a way a
rivalry to for example bill Harvey at
the head of staff C affected John Tobey
the I don't say he know the high-level
intelligence operative in the
kay who was really a communist agent and
still be befriended angle tena me hung
out together and Angleton saw him as a
friend and a mentor and while Angleton
was always cautious around him cookie
knew even as a you know UK intelligence
employee that he'd be after the CIA
secret but angle to never release
suspected him of being a Soviet agent
but bill Harvey did and interestingly
enough although bill Harvey did and
wrote memos and you know basically
exposed Shelby internally in the CIA
long before anyone else
it was angleton that ends up being
promoted to the head of the
counterintelligence unit ok shows the
kind of power that even when angleton
kind of failed he still rose in the
agency and I think that was largely due
to his friendship with Allen Dulles and
him his taste for the Machiavellian
I mean angleton was not about sabotaging
others who stood in his way in order to
make his own rise in the agency very
interesting character he had a lot of
connections he kind of saved some of
these ex fascists than and Nazis but he
had connections with the Mafia he had
connections with Israel he had a lot of
kind of his own things going on and one
of the things you talked about was his
own links with even the media yeah in
fact one of the things I was
disappointed I went to here just morally
talk when he promoted his book here in
LA and I thought I was lobbying in the
softball when I asked him to talk about
James Angleton's media assets and he had
no answer and I didn't realize that
wasn't in his book cause to me that's
one of the most important things about
James angles and is that he had these
deep connections with big people in the
media for example one of those is close
operatives or the guy named John Oh so
akes John Oakes ran the editorial page
at the New York Times you know from the
50s to that I think the early seventies
and so if you wanted to control kind of
the tone of the New York time during the
assassinations of the sixties what
better person
a veneer back to market ran the
editorial page because you know news
reports are one thing but the editorial
kind of where they get to try and
imprint opinions while other people and
so I thought that was a phenomenally
important contact and you know Angleton
basically considers him an asset in 1966
after the you know committee is fast but
after the JFK assassination before the
RFK assassination and after the Warren
Commission a lot of data had come out
about the CIA that they weren't really
answering to the presidency and so the
near time started to do a series on this
in 1966 and they sent questionnaires
around and they started getting hints
but some of the media people might have
been involved and that the CI was
running off the books operations or
running things without presidential
approval in fact one of the things that
near Times reported on this really good
series they did was how there was a
shipment of sugar I think it was in
Puerto Rico and it was from Cuba in
route to the Soviet Union and CI
operatives got in and tainted or
poisoned the sugar that you know to ruin
it so they couldn't you know so it
ruined the trade between Cuba and the
Soviet Union well somehow President
Kennedy got wind of this and so she ran
its own counter operation and he sent
operatives in to switch out this you
know the poisoned sugar or whatever and
you know to save the situation and the
CI was pissed at him of course kennedy
was furious at the CIA because they're
running an operation he hadn't ordered
them this was you know part of the
impetus for President Kennedy he wanted
to put the CIA under stricter control
after the Bay of Pigs after being lied
to you know for all these things he
realized that the CI was running its own
kind of off-the-books operation and he
thought if he put them in the military
chain of command it wasn't be able to
get away with that kind of stuff so he
literally set up the DIA the Defense
Intelligence Agency that was the place
where he wanted to move CIA covert
operations and put him under strict
military control and he did set up the
TI NE started the process and he was
killed long before
you could really get it off the ground
and you know people draw their own
conclusions about you know whether that
contributed to this murder or not but
you know so Angleton had you know John
Oakes but he had many other people he
had you know close relationship with a
lot of reporters and some of the
reporters according to Carl Bernstein
who wrote about this in Rolling Stone in
the 1970 70s he said that Angleton's
groups included you know covert
operators who were kind of using the
media as cover
meaning actual assassins posing as
journalists for example and I know the
church in the pike committee they looked
into this and they found that the CIA
had pretty much everything in kind of a
rainbow gamut they had reporters who did
a little bit of intelligence work and
then they had intelligence agents who
did a little bit of reporting work and
everything in between but there was also
there was what was called an
assassination unit
according to get he Howard hunt one of
the Watergate burglars and the this
assassination unit was headed by a guy
named Boris cash PA SH and that Angleton
ran that unit and that the unit's job
was again to kill people who are giving
away CIA secrets in other words to kill
CIA employees who were breaking the
secrets of the agency and that's
somewhat the function of the CIA's
office of security point of the office
of security is to make sure the CIA's
secret stays secure so if you have an
employee who's going in talking to the
media it's the job of the office of
security to shut that down one way or
another and of course the most extreme
way to shut that dad would be to kill
someone now whether the CIA ever didn't
kill her you know own agent that same
kind reported but without names and
dates you know that yes this has kind of
happened but it's also the case that
people fear it happening which is almost
as good right if you want to control
somebody and keep them from leaking you
know it helps to keep this fear of their
lives if they tell a secret so that's
partly winning angleton did Angleton
also controlled the relationship with
Congress to the extent that he had
bugged
all over Capitol Hill according to Tom
Braden who was on crossfire for years
Braden was a CIA employee for many years
and all sensibly quit you know in later
years famously wrote an article during
the church committee saying why I'm glad
the CIA is immoral basically defending
the CIA's were successes that kind of
shows the Braden's them what else he's
life if you will Braden told author
James mangled or mangled reported Braden
saying this but angleton would go into
Allen Dulles office every morning and
they would talk about the take from
Capitol Hill in the guise of fishy talk
you know I can just imagine and be a
fantastic scene for a movie you know
these guys having a conversation because
there's another statement that mild
complet attributed to angleton that was
somewhat along the line if you can't
figure out what Capitol Hill is doing
about the CIA you shouldn't even be in
the sea I mean you know it was a fairly
young agency at the time you know I mean
what angles enjoyed it it was just being
birthed and they were very worried that
Congress would bring them in or cancel
them or shut them down and so if you're
tapping people on Capitol Hill what is
that give you that gives you a leverage
if some congressman is sleeping around
on his life that's fantastic leverage to
ensure the cns budget stays secure I
don't know how many of your listeners
ever watched the TV show scandal but
it's honestly some a true-to-life
so I've ever seen about how Washington
really works you know it's like all the
blackmail that goes on behind the scenes
I really honestly believe that is how
our government is run and I know Nancy
Pelosi and other high-level people have
made comments like we don't dare go up
against the CIA they can destroy you in
the media and the relationship between
the CIA and the media I think really
explains why we've never gotten the
truth about the assassinations of the
sixties because of the CIA killed both
Kennedys if they had anything to do with
Martin Luther King's death Malcolm X's
death they made sure their media assets
never reported it and they made sure
that no critics of the agency
ever rose in the ranks in the media and
those that did were quickly outfit there
was a guy Sydney Grusin who was
reporting on what the CI was doing in
Guatemala so what did the CI do they
hadn't transferred you know off of that
Beach you know they just went right to
his employer at the New York Times and
said we don't want him reporting those
waterball and you know basically
neutralized him and people who did play
along with the agency and cover their
operations like Hal Hendricks in Miami
he would get scoop after scoop in fact
one of the scoops was so good he
reported a coup a day before it happened
it's like how does that happen you know
inside sources by the way Hal Hendricks
evidently showed up on who was it Jack
Ruby's phone was just something or how
Hendricks had called poet chef Cantor
when Seth Cantor a reporter in Dallas
was trying to follow up on Oswald you
know background somebody referred him to
how Hendrix and how Hendrix evidently
had a close relationship with David Ali
Phillips a man who many believed was
directly involved in the assassination
of President Kennedy and I'm I'm getting
far from angles at at this point but I
want to go back to angleton and the
bugging of Capitol Hill because it went
further back than that when the CIA when
the discussions are whether there should
even be in CIA or not we're happening
because after the after World War two
ended a lot of people didn't want a
standing intelligence service they felt
that's what the Nazis had with their SS
and they were very fearful of having the
same sort of agency at home and so there
was a big press to kind of disband those
efforts and let the existing agencies
the FBI and the army and you know all
the other intelligence agencies that
we're already around let them stand but
you know all these OSS operatives you
know again these are rich bankers kids
with a lot of money and time on their
hands and lawyers smart people with huge
networks in the establishment and so
they worked their ties from that end you
know I think somebody was going on and
then who is one of the biggest voices
they had to silence J Edgar Hoover
because Hoover at that point had an
international lot people don't realize
that the FBI was an international agency
during
[ __ ] - they had bureaus in Europe and
bureaus in South America I mean they
were kind of all over it was a very big
Intelligence Agency and you know the CIA
you know ain't Angleton and Allen Dulles
and his ilk wanted to neutralize Hoover
and make sure he couldn't sabotage their
efforts to become the predominant agency
in the world and so it looks like that
Angleton evidently paid one of his
operatives to go get a blackmail photo
of Hoover having sex with his close aide
Clyde Tolson because at that time
homosexuality was like a huge sin you
know it's like people didn't talk about
it he shunned it you know if it was
played in the movies it was always some
horrible thing
I mean it's so sad yeah I feel so bad
for all the homosexuals who throughout
history and had to suppress who they are
just to please you know other ignorant
people that's just crazy but but they
took advantage of movers homosexuality
and they use that to silence him and
blackmail him into allowing the CIA to
be formed you know because if they could
neutralize Hoover and and keep him from
using - those like missile material on
congressmen and Senators then they could
get the CI pass and that's kind of how
that came about
one so it shows like he has his own
power and then he has power within the
CIA but he is right so he's kind of in
the perfect position to handle something
like the JFK assassination do you wanna
should we start going into that I don't
even know what the best way to approach
it would be to all do it well I think I
think we have to talk about his
relationship with Oswald because in the
CIA Angleton's counterintelligence unit
was very large like 200 people and then
within counterintelligence Anglophone
had a very small tiny group of about
five people for something called s IG
Special Investigations Group
this was his liaison group with the
office of security
this was his mole hunting group this was
his most trusted most club mouth
associates if you will it was kind of
where and go
who stuck his black ops within
counterintelligence it's like there's
all the legitimate counterintelligence
operations and then there's all the
super-secret one that may or may not
have been legitimate and he buried those
in this little si G group so I find it
really important and significant that
when Oswald's file was finally opened
officially in the CIA
we'll talk about the unofficial stuff in
a minute but when I was officially
opened in the CIA was officially opened
in that little tiny group and not in the
larger counterintelligence effort where
I would have expected it to be John
Newman did an excellent job explaining
this to me and others in his book Oswald
in the CIA and I highly recommend
reading that but I also recommend read
that in conjunction with Tom mangled
book on angleton it's called cold
warrior and I think these two has to be
read together because you have to
understand how counter intelligence to
the CIA and the Soviet Russia division
worked normally to understand why it's
such an anomaly that Oswald's file would
be in this little area non the bigger
area because now let's talk about Oswald
for a second here you have this guy
first of all you know he joined the
Marines but according to his Warren
Commission testimony of his you know
military buddies he's always playing
Russian operas he's talking about
communism and I mean we're talking the
you know the military one of the most
conservative organizations on the planet
at the height of the Cold War and you
have this guy like openly talking about
loving Russia in the middle of your
Marines they had to all know that this
guy was an intelligence agent where he
would have been thrown down on his ass
on day one I get the traitor right right
they do instead they take this communist
loving you know guy and they put him in
the radar operations of the super-secret
new to play you know so again it's like
the they had to know at the start that
this guy was being trained for some
intelligence mission in Russia and so
out of all while he's at the asougi base
which by the way is called a
super-secret plush CIA base it's also
where some of the mind-control
operations
originated a lot of interesting things
happen at that base but unbeknownst even
to the higher-ups at Atsugi the u2 was
flying not just over Russia
let me flying over China and it was
Oswald who figured this out which kind
of shows how intelligent Oswald was and
Oswald had gone to his you know unit
captain said I think we're flying over
China and and his captors like no no
that couldn't be they would have told me
that was the case this is what he told
the Warren Commission years later or
John Newman even I don't remember if it
was a if John Newman quoted his Warren
Commission testimony or if this was from
John Newman's interview I'd have to go
back and look at his book oh excuse me
joking
but Newman reported this moral base
achill II you know Oswald bought that
that and Atsugi as saying Oswald had
figured this out on his phone and when
he checked into it and found out it was
true he was surprised and impressed so
again not only was Oswald smart and
intelligence he was finding out data
even beyond his own clearance level and
so when this guy then ends up defecting
quote unquote to the Soviet Union why
didn't he warn don't go up why didn't
somebody like sneaking in the Soviet
Union named Phyllis
why was he allowed to defect and he
didn't actually defense let's let's put
that on the thing right away everybody
reports that he defected well he said he
wanted to defect and the people at the
Americans at the American Embassy in
Moscow basically deflected that and said
well you'd have to fill out this and
that paperwork and you have to sign this
declaration you'd have to do this and
then also up didn't do all this so he
didn't actually ever defect and of
course that seemed to be the plan so
while he's there he's saying very loudly
he's for the microphones that the CIA
knew the Soviet Union had installed in
the embassy when it was built
he's like he had something of special
interest he wanted to divulge now again
so here you are an embassy officer and
you've got this guy saying I'm about to
commit treason hey anybody want my
treason you know it's like it's such a
straight story as I read it I laughs you
know it's like this had to be so obvious
and I
leave that's why the Soviets didn't
really show a lot of interest in Oswald
he was so obviously an intelligence
agent to them that they didn't want to
touch him because they knew he was
probably what they called me about this
world a dangle like something you put on
the end of a fishhook to bait fish you
know it's like here's a guy with you to
knowledge let's see who bites who at
that time the CI worried that they might
have a leak in the you tube program and
something wanted to see what the Soviets
knew and they knew if they all swarmed
in on Oswald that meant they didn't have
sores
I mean you to program and they really
wanted to they needed what Oswald had
but if they didn't touch Oswald then
that would tell them they did have a
source and because they didn't need also
while they're getting that information
from somewhere else but to me there was
always the third possibility that
whether or not they had a source they
knew Oswald was bi and they weren't
going to go anywhere near him in the
first place you know it seemed like that
was the possibility the see I never
considered as an option but it was such
clumsy spy craft it's like how could
anybody be fooled by that so anyway and
why did you know it was how do I want to
say it and don't believe I don't know I
don't believe that also went to Soviet
Union as a CIA operation but I would
find it would make great sense if he
went as an angle t'n vest-pocket
operation you know it seems like you
know Angleton had been in the army he
had contacts in the military they had
contact with oh and I office of Navy
intelligence he had contacts everywhere
and it wouldn't surprise me at all he
said I need 10 year guys because there
were about 10 defectors at that time
which had similar backgrounds and in
fact Marina Oswald apparently had met a
different one of the defectors
quote-unquote that went over at the same
time Robert Webster and almost hooked up
with him but then ended up with Oswald
like her job was to secure one of these
I somebody didn't get one she went on to
the next right and so you know just
roads and intelligence implications and
and then when Oswald
they are one of the first people he
talks to is this journalist Priscilla
Johnson who later became Priscilla
Johnson McMillan and we now know you
know that her file she was a-witching
CIA reporting asset a reporter who
wittingly worked the CI because see I
had unwitting reporters who thought they
were maybe doing favors for a
businessman not knowing they were really
working for the CIA so it's important
understand there are people work for the
CIA who don't even know her working for
the CIA they think they're working for a
foundation or some business or whatever
but they're really working for the CI
and then others are witty and Priscilla
was witty so the switching CIA asset
interviews on the Soviet Union and
writes about him that comes in very
handy then after the assassination of
President Kennedy she's one of the first
people to write up his background and oh
you know I remember what he defected and
remember he didn't really defect but she
presents it as his defection to the
Soviet Union you know I I can't help but
suspect the tie between Angleton and
Priscilla that I can't you know I can't
document that I expected because that
would make sense anyway next question
well it was also on James Angleton's at
HT lingual list where Angleton was
running the mail opening program between
the Soviet Union and the US and was on
them right right and not only that it's
interesting because there was a watch
list of people whose mail was to be
opened but Oswald mail was open
regardless of whether he was on the each
tootling gold watchlist or not and again
I find that significant so it wasn't
like his mail was being open because he
was just on a list and was made up by
somebody else
it's like Oswald's mail was always been
open which which indicates an extremely
high level of interest and they saw all
the communications between his mother
and himself and then when the hot dog
comes back he brings with him they call
it I think his historic diary but as
soon as John Newman explained it at one
of the conference's it's really like a
Soviet reality it's reports he talks
about the factory
worked it and how many you know
airplanes were out in this airfield and
which restaurants are near this it's
like if you you know at that time I get
people to understand cuz you can go to
Moscow and travel around pretty openly
nowadays but it didn't used to be like
that was a completely closed society
very difficult to get into and so how
can the CI run operations there if they
can't even pick a drop spot you know if
they need to pass secret files they need
to know if there's a park and a bench or
a toilet you know where they can hide
something they need all that really
mundane information so that they can
start to connect with others in the
Soviet Union and it seemed that that's
part of what oswald quote-unquote his
short diary was about just kind of
describing the factory he worked in and
what kind of things happened there you
know what the streets were like and and
so it's almost like an intelligence
report you know in the guise of a diary
and in that diary of course when I read
it I was struck by how much money all I
was getting from the Red Cross now we
all know the Red Cross is a charity
organization that provides blood victims
you know act you know accidents you know
if there's a mudslide or volcano you
know whatever the Red Cross goes in and
takes care of people but if I die in the
military defects to the Soviet Union I
don't expect the Red Cross to be paying
him a site so in that sense it appeared
the Red Cross was really fronting for
the CIA in the Soviet Union because who
would suspect a nice charity
organization like the Red Cross to be
funding CIA operation but that's really
the only explanation I can come up with
there's really no other reason for the
Red Cross to be paying all jobs so much
that he's like wow I'm I'm making as
much money as the factory manager is the
dream come true it's like he had all his
expenses taken care of his rent was like
nothing and then he's getting this
stipend he's you know his salary from
the Red Cross he's getting more than his
salary from the Red Cross it's
incredible and getting really the only
way to explain that is it the Red Cross
somehow knew he was an intelligence
asset of somebody and was paying him you
know - so he could do his intelligence
activities that's really the only way
that story makes sense and then also
I'll talk about coming back to the
United
dates on a military hop and I've never
quite understood how he did get back to
the United States and I assume he
probably did take a military off we've
never seen records otherwise and maybe I
just haven't researched at and maybe
came back on a commercial flight but
again he's met when he comes back to
America and giving some aid when he
returns and again this is a guy with
high-level military secrets not only
quote unquote defected but actually
verbally offered those secrets up to the
Soviets and he comes back like an
American Hero
how does that happen unless he's an
intelligence agent I mean the whole
story makes sense it's all lit over
there is 5nk back to the spot the story
doesn't make any sense at all if I was
walking over there on his own will and
did all these crazy things and then
manages to get rewarded when it comes
out that story makes no sense right
right well tell the story of auto-attack
because he was trying to look into who
was real the leaders and who were not
right and that goes back to the opening
of Oswald's file because Oswald's
affected the Soviet Union in 1959 or
1958 because the end of 58 or the
beginning of 59 but Oswald's file in the
CIA isn't open for almost a year later
which is really interesting because his
quote-unquote defection was actually
reported in the Washington Post I mean
you know right there in the nose of the
CIA and they read the paper every day
and again you know it was the CIA's the
u2 was the CIA's plane it wasn't you
know didn't belong to any other agency
that was a CIA facilities he sat at a
Sookie you know and so here's this guy
who worked for the CIA facility tracking
the CIA secret spy plane and defects
openly to the Soviet Union and the CIA
doesn't even open a file on him again
that should indicate of course they
didn't open a file publicly on him cuz
they had some secret file on him open
already maybe even under a code thing
that would make sense it not make sense
ci is that incompetent and some people
believe it is but no you're not in cover
they're highly skilled at what they do
all right so anyway so they
sky's the State Department who State
Department security learns that a bunch
of these Americans have suddenly
defected together like 10 or 15 of them
that in a short period of time all and
decide to move to the Soviet Union and
again here we are in America you know
land of the free home of the brave
you know price is a reasonable life is
good weather is great why do these
people leave to go to a closed society
communistic under dictatorship it makes
no sense the people would choose to
leave a free country to go to a
dictatorship and usually happens the
other way around right so obviously the
State Department employee is suspicious
but he goes yeah I'm guessing this is
some serve intelligence operation so he
writes the CIA and you like which of
these are yours and when the CIA gets
that request they know to route some of
those names directly to the security
research staff again a subset of the
office of security in the same way that
SiGe Singh was a subset of
counterintelligence within the overall
office of security there was the
security research staff area a smaller
component and they knew right away that
Oswald need to go that smaller component
whereas others could just go to the
Soviet Russia division so even on the
intake people recognized that Oswald was
a special case and it it was at that
point when the faith department requests
information at that point the CI opens a
file on Oswald and now I'm gonna jump
ahead a few years considering the Church
Committee carrying bill Harvey would ran
counterintelligence and then later moved
into running Cuban operations and some
of the plots to kill Castro Bill Harvey
in his notes about how to create in the
fastness assassination plot said we need
a phony 201 file made up to look like a
counterintelligence file and that's I
think what Oswald's file was I think his
official file is a phony
counterintelligence well designed to
hide his real status as a deep deep deep
cover CIA asset and in fact there are
when and Goodpasture was the ones who
open this file when she was questioned
about his file and the opening of it
she indicated there were like top secret
code numbers on certain of these styles
and then later when showed Oswalt out
she points to something on it and we
can't see cuz I'm only a transcript not
a video but she points to some numbers
and goes those are those numbers like I
was telling you about earlier and the
only number she talked about earlier
were top secret code numbers so it's
like there's something secret in Oswald
file we still don't understand because
you know no one has explained fully what
code you know she was referring to her
what that meant but anyway so
auto-attack Goodell finds once he starts
asking questions about Oswald suddenly
he becomes the target of an internal
investigation at the State Department
and people are following him and taping
him and going through his burn bags at
night and soon he is under suspicion you
know for you know whatever and he is
literally forced out of the agency
shortly before you know the
assassination and one of the files in
his safe is his study of Oswald because
he's still trying to figure out is this
guy CIO or not I think this was like 62
of course the assassination was in 63 so
when I say shortly before I'm talking
like a year not like a day or a month
you know I'm talking about a year but I
found that fascinating because here this
guy's just trying to do his job and just
trying to figure out what's going on but
yeah he realizes he might be some
bleeding upon their own internal
operations and they freeze and out and
and that's unfortunate for a temp cat so
that's the answer to that question next
question so well it kind of matches
Oswald's experience in the USSR kind of
matches what he does in the fair play
for Cuba community right that also kind
of does not fit with a normal person's
behavior it doesn't exactly exactly so
here again now he comes back from the
Soviet Union and who does he hang out
with he doesn't choose to hang out with
communists or whatever he instead is
befriended by this really conservative
White Russian George de Mohrenschildt
I'm looking forward that I'm not
fighting but
don't super conservative guy who's like
an aristocrat yeah yeah aristocrat and
who is coincidentally of course working
with the CIA through the New Orleans
office Jay wanted more the barn
shoulders in touch with him and so this
guy Oswald befriends the CI guy who
who's got a whole group of very
right-wing Russians but he's in bed with
and then from this right-wing Russian
group Oswald then goes off and wants to
join the fair play for Cuba committee
you know buncha leftist you know
promoting Castro or so it might appear
because honestly I've begun to wonder if
the Cole fair play for Cuba committee
wasn't a false flag operation from the
start set up by the CIA to pull in
Castro supporters and neutralize them
but that's a story for you know but I've
never had time to fully research that
but every time I look down that path
it's always looked very promising but
anyway James McCord one of the office of
security guys who later got involved in
Watergate was part of an anti FPC upper
FPC see seriously for Cuba committee
operation and ensure beer Zog level
ensues so again he's going out and
handing Flyers and trying to overtly
look like a Castro supporter and arguing
with Carlos Grenier who is working for
the d-r-e but which is I can't say it in
in Cuban but it's basically a student
organization that is by the way run by
the JM wave station in Florida by George
Joe and Edith high-level CIA operatives
there so you know although people don't
usually think of Oswald's fight with
Carlos Bernier as being a CIA operation
to me that was so obviously staged as a
way to paint Oswald as this prominent
leftist because it made the news and
then Oswald suddenly on TV in the radio
doing a debate with Frannie and you know
it's like Oswald was being groomed for
something and honestly I have always
thought that Oswald was being groomed to
be a patsy in a Castro plot and you know
in a caster assassination plot to the
see I was working on that before the
point
which I mean the CIA when they said for
the Soviet Union you know in in 58 they
were not planning to kill Kennedy they
didn't even know he would be president
you know what I mean it's like trying to
see groom for something that had nothing
to do with the Kennedy assassination and
I think he was being groomed to
infiltrate Cuba and run operations there
and that's why he went to the Soviet
Union to be as they call sheets as a
communist and then comes back and
pretends to carry on is communistic
activities even though you know at other
times he's like you know happy with the
gun guys and talking to the
right-wingers and okay like a split
personality here so I'm sorry that I
forgot where I was going with that no I
think anyway so so yeah I mean Oswald
appears to be parven aunt oh oh that's
the other thing so he's running this pro
SPCC operation out of the building of
guide banister again one of the most
hardcore right-wing ex-fbi current CIA
asset was probably involved in the
Guatemalan coup from what I understand
you know guy banister has a long right
wing the record that crossed the path of
the CIA also in the same building
Sergio our conscious Smith our conscious
Smith just happened to have maps of the
sewer system in Dallas right after the
assassination of John Kennedy that's not
about you know lieutenant three day one
of the cops in New Orleans reported that
to the HSC a which never really followed
up on that so you know here you have
again on Volvo's elite pro-communist
hang out with these two extreme
right-wing CIA assets and you know
printings and then Jim D Eugenio found
out that the the pamphlets Oswald was
handy now that particular set you know
by the serial number on the back had
been ordered by the CIA so I'll go pan
yeah yeah you'll see I printed a about
Cuba I mean how could anybody look at
this and not understand that Allah was
an intelligence agent it's just it
boggles the mind that any any reporter
you know worth their salt could not look
at this evidence and
here this out and you know my
conclusions they don't look at the
evidence you know they look at what the
CI tells about their brief each team
then they go report that because there's
no way for any honest person to look at
this evidence but not understand that
all was was a CIA asset right well if
there's their editors are controlled and
the publishers are working with people
like angleton then like you said it kind
of all can fall into place
so the assassination occurs also
obviously set up to look like a
communist then the Warren Commission
starts in and you showed a lot evidence
in your talk about the way that the CIA
was feeding information to the FBI
the way that angleton was looking into a
lot of things and he was in control of
the CIA's communication with the Warren
Commission itself so you want to talk
about you said he knew what to cover up
even after the Warren Commission what's
in it and also during it you want to
talk about that yeah and I'm gonna I'm
gonna back up just a little bit because
interestingly enough angle didn't hand
it off
Oswald's filed to the I forget the name
of it but it was a the group reading
Cuban operation so I get the time of the
assassination Oswald's file wasn't
really a counterintelligence self it was
more a qubit operations file and special
affairs staff maybe I have to check but
I think that's interesting it's almost
like Angleton was burning his own agent
by handing him off to basically a group
that David Phillips was going to be
involved in and then David Phillips is
seen by Antonio ves iana who is now
confirmed in person verbally at a
conference that I attended that yes
David Phillips was the Maurice Bishop
that he he had known gave himself as
Maurice Bishop and he had hinted that
Maurice Bishop was Damon Phillips but he
has now confirmed 100% it was David
Phillips and he saw Oswald talking to
David Phillips shortly before you know
as he was approaching him and felt can
quickly face with conversation Oswald
went away and then
attention to vest IANA but that's yeah I
was a hundred percent sure that that was
silly Harvey Oswald been killed later by
Jack Ruby in Dallas so that's
interesting
and now so we go to Mexico City amongst
before the assassination Oswald
supposedly takes the trip to Mexico City
I believe Oswald did go to Mexico City
I'm not convinced Oswald went to either
embassy and because the records that
show him at the Soviet of the fear
calling the Soviet embassy John Newman
in his book explained that the
conversation that Oswald supposedly had
sent the Dane he called the Soviet
embassy was actually closed and no one
was there and they were all out having I
could kabali ball game like that
conversation could not have transpired
it had to be entirely fictional eyes or
take it from some other date and rest up
you know but whatever it couldn't happen
that way I also know that the Oswald
citing that the Cuban consulate also
probably didn't happen because the man
who was the Cuban consulate at the time
you do ask you had told the HSE a that
the guy would come in did not match the
guy who was shot on TV by Jack Ruby but
it was a different looking guy other
people reported seeing a shorter blonde
haired guy
it'll go in and pretend to be Lee Harvey
Oswald didn't make a fuss and you know
be kind of overly dramatic and they were
suspicious of that because the students
seem to be behaving like a normal person
would you know and so again it seems you
see I was free mean Oswald in advance of
the assassination in a way that Oswald
himself apparently know about and didn't
recognize what's happening and so this
was happening either with or without
Angleton's knowledge hard to connect him
at that point but then after the
assassination order again so before
these fascination the CIA then sends a
note out to other agencies for the
government saying all this guy Oswald he
meant with this you know this Soviet
assassin named you know blah blah blah
and you know they kind of put out a
high-level alert on him but they
deliberately miss describe him
I say deliberately because the same
people who wrote that communication also
wrote another communication whether it's
in a two hour period that described
Oswald totally accurately and that one
went to a smaller group so it's like
they're raising the threat level on the
Oswald name so that if people see that
name later it will trigger a cover-up
but they don't want him picked up in
advance of the assassination so it's
really it's really sophisticated again
people who don't do crime for a living
and don't study intelligence operation
this just sounds fantastical because
like oh my god all I do is I plan where
my groceries you know what I'm gonna buy
for groceries is me you know no one
would plan an assassination plot to that
great detail but that's not most people
job if it's your job and that's all you
do you're gonna get as good at it as
anybody else that's their job
all right like these people have a PhD
is an assassination plot you know these
people they know what they're doing and
they plan every aspect and every
contingency and what if this goes wrong
then this will happen what if this goes
well then this will happen how do we
make sure the other agencies in buy into
the cover will feed them data in advance
that will help make it them look guilty
and that will cause them to cover up any
other records they have because they
don't want to expose that they knew this
guy was meeting with an assassin
beforehand and then didn't do anything
about it
so all this Dean is kind of fed into the
system you know john newman calls it
like a virus you know so that people are
eager to hide what they knew that oswald
after the fact so now we cut to your
question and so now it's the Warren
Commission Simon inside the CIA Richard
Helms orders and internal investigations
of what happened you know what it's kind
of like I think Helms wanted to know
what could an outsider find out about
the assassination and what we do about
Oswald and went and he assigns a guy
named John Witten who is in the files of
spell so john skelton but his real name
was Witten and he starts to write a very
accurate report and he notices some
weird things about the the whole Mexico
City episode and you know he's kind of
questioning it's like this guy doesn't
seem to be like a real sector and and so
angles him and kind of
sets up Kelso and take the investigation
away from him
and can because Angleton's whole point
it seems was to use Oswald as a wedge
against the Soviet Union uh Angleton
didn't want to say it was a lone nut he
wanted to say there was a conspiracy it
was all while working for the Soviets
and that that's why we have to cover it
up because if it gets out then we could
be at a nuclear confrontation and we
don't want that and somehow that's
basically the word that gets to LBJ
President Johnson and so you know he she
never doubts that it's a conspiracy he
just wants it covered up because he
doesn't want to go to war with Russia
over it and that's kind of why I believe
the Warren Commission came to the
conclusion it did they all probably knew
it's all the evidence of conspiracy but
they feared that if they told the truth
you know again not understanding how to
see I was manipulating all this evidence
for them they believed it was a Soviet
conspiracy and they wanted to cover it
up and make it look like just Oswald so
we could you know live in peace and uh
you know fear a war with the Soviets and
angleton was the direct liaison to the
Warren Commission and of course who was
on the Warren Commission his longtime
buddy his patron saint allan dulles you
know who is head of the CIA and who had
likely ordered the murder of President
Kennedy so you know you've Allen Dulles
on the inside the Warren Commission and
an angle down the inside the CIA
coordinating their story and one of the
most interesting parts of this is that
when it came to Jagger Hoover apparently
angled him stranded for months not days
not weeks but months as to whether
Hoover without Oswald as a CIA employee
because Hoover already knew that
somebody else had used Oswald's passport
of the Soviet Union while he was there
which again be speaks and intelligence
operations Hoover was suspicious of
Oswald's connections with the FPC see
probably cause Hoover knew the CIA was
ruddy an operation against the FPC see
cooter was a smart guy he's a really
smart guy and he'd been in intelligence
longer than Angleton you know it's like
he he saw what was going on and I think
to see I really worried is like if he
can expose us or not
and finally Hoover basically plays along
and you know and they they agree that
Oswald was not an agent
yay and this becomes a fantastic I would
recommend everybody read the transcript
of Angleton being interviewed by
Senators wanker for the church committee
just like finds this impossible he's
like well why would you worry
I mean if aught old wasn't an employee
the CFA why would Hoover ever say that
he was and why would you worry about the
Hoover said if you knew Oswald wasn't an
employee you know it because again the
only way that makes sense is a on told
CIA and the CIA worried that Hoover knew
this was gonna expose them in front of
the Warren Commission and you know it
cuz they also they had that blackmail
material on Hoover but that's a
commentary you can only use once and it
either works or it doesn't and what if
they released is impressed and it all
came out and Hoover stayed in power so
it's like but you know see I couldn't be
a hundred percent sure that their
blackmail would work but apparently it
did cuz Hoover went along didn't expose
the CIA to cover-up was complete and
then now we cut you know the Warren
Commission the war report came out 64
you know the end of 1964 and now it's
like it's done the media is all
reporting was all alone it's done it's
tough but in 65 angleton is still
worried and they find out that mrs.
Rubio asked you guys that I talked about
at that Cuban consulate who said the guy
who came in with the name Oswald wasn't
the guy he saw shot on TV they find out
that he's going to be passing through
Mick see it's in Mexico City and they're
like if he comes through see if you can
get access to him and then in a separate
communication they say if appropriate
access is given can him drunk and get
him to talk about a fault in other words
maybe in a drunken state they can get
some statement for him that they can use
as support that it really was Oswald
there at the Cuban embassy in other
words you know
drug and convincing it was awful it's
kind of the implication when I read that
that's what I got I thought they're
trying to find a way to turn ascii or
get him drunk and compromised and in
some way so that he can't say it wasn't
all suave and again this is 65 it's
Before Time magazine publishes pictures
of those pruder film it's before mark
Lane is widely known it's a time of
relative quiet in the case again table
crawled up I was all did it done
conspiracy theorists and the real forum
you know cuz mainstream media is
reporting what they're coming up with
that angleton is still worried he's
still tying up loose ends and I found
that really significant and you also my
writing that one part of your talk you
said that angleton also had background
checks done on the jurors in the Jim
Garrison case is that right
yes and to me again that's that's
borderline jury tampering the CI was
intentionally interested in Jim
Garrison's case Jim Garrison was a New
Orleans PA who you know found out Oswald
had been there in New Orleans or that he
had been on TV and in a fight with
Bernie and he knew that although was
working out of the Senate Orton's neck
caesarian and so Jim Garrison's like
gosh maybe the assassination plot was
hatched right here under my nose in New
Orleans let's look into it and he starts
interviewing people and he finds you
know witness who said that David Ferrie
and Clay Shaw and Oswald or at a party
together and that the assassination was
discussed and that Clay Shaw said he'd
be you know and out of the city when it
went down and David Ferrie talked about
trying delecia crossfire and if people
have seen the film and JFK there's a
scene where this conversation you know
allegedly took place and so you know Jim
Garrison's like oh my gosh you know
there's something really serious is
going on and in quickly Jim Garrison
finds out that a lot of these
anti-castro Cubans in the New Orleans
area are connected to the CIA and so
he's suspecting and you know David
ferries connected the CI he's wondering
if clay Shawn's connected this CI
meanwhile CI is freaking out there
having meetings daily and they're
talking about the threat you know coming
from New Orleans
and build a V by the way he's kind of
read bill baby [ __ ] get him on your
show he's so so underrated as a
researcher and he sends such incredible
work I just want to tell people if you
don't know bill Davies work you don't
know the story if we did it is that they
he's really good and and he goes into
great detail along these lines and what
the see I was learning about Garrison's
investigation when and why and you know
how they were trying to sabotage
Garrison's investigations in fact the
HSC a found out that or ten CIA plants
seen Garrison's office because you know
when you do big investigation you hire a
bunch of people and they ask that a
certain kind of background and easy for
the CIA to get their people in you know
forge up some you have documents make
them look like the right person all it
takes is one insider bringing all the
rest and so they were sabotages case
from within and without
but angles it was specifically we had
ordered background checks of every juror
now the only reason that would matter is
if you're planning to do jury tampering
right you want to know is there anybody
we can get to is there any leverage we
can hold on any of them and that's
completely illegal it's it's a legal
domestic spying to even look at their
backgrounds I mean he should have been
arrested and thrown in jail just for
that document and you know no one in
Congress they're so afraid of the CIA
they know what they can do they won't
they won't jail these people they won't
all the mechanimal and and that's why I
feel we're in serious danger as a
country because we pretend to be this
democracy but there's this covert
faction that really runs the government
from the deep dark recesses underneath
in ways we don't fear control and that's
why I've spent so much of my life
studying it it's not about the past it's
not even about who killed Kennedy it's
like what is happening today and why
can't I get to the truth about it and
why is Congress being so weak and you
know spineless on certain issues and
people really need to understand there's
this whole subterranean other government
that is going on under the hood that we
don't see and the Kennedy assassination
because there are so many files I mean
there are literally millions of pages of
documents it gives us this incredible
window into how the world really works
in America at least
and that's why I study and why encourage
other people study it the more you know
the less you can be fooled the more you
know the sooner you start to see
patterns coming up when I see the media
suddenly you know usually you turn to
one station they're talking about one
through three turn to another station
they're talking about a different news
story when they all start talking about
the same story all at the same time it's
usually something buddy things doing God
you know there was a time where son Liam
using all the news media was urging
Obama to bomb Syria bombs in Austria it
was everywhere is in the you know and
and I thought Obama's have handled that
brilliantly and he threw it to Congress
knowing they would not support him and
so that was his way out of bombing Syria
and that pissed off the CIA but it
worked and you know all credit to Obama
is one of the few really great things I
thought he did it's hard to stand up to
the CIA and then he he was wise to that
and he found a way out and if you don't
study this kind of history you can't
find those back doors because if you
don't understand what's happening you
can't counter it so anyway I digress a
little bit but no no I think that's I
think that's a great way to wrap up to
say I mean a lot of people I think look
at Angleton as sort of this uniquely
evil and idiosyncratic guy but that's
that's really not the case I mean he's
he's left legacy and that's kind of the
logic of having one of these secret
agencies right right right and that's
the thing there are other Angleton's and
we don't know about them in fact some of
the spokespeople on TV you have
counterintelligence backgrounds there's
a guy Malcolm Nance who is frequently on
as a commentator and he was head of like
the counterterrorism unit or something
it's like these people their credentials
are not really explained when it's put
on TV is an expert but people don't
understand they are experts and bandits
with a certain point of view to get
across and although it's an illegal to
propagandize America again people don't
know what's happening and the people who
do don't have the power to prosecute it
even though it's do we go pappa guys you
know
to propagandize your own people but it
happens every day is one of the reasons
I find it really hard to watch the news
that I can hyper aware of it as it
happens and it's like malicious [ __ ]
this is [ __ ] what's the real story
right and that's why rich books and
going to the documents cuz you know the
truth is not gonna be told in the
mainstream media it's just not anyway
thanks for doing yourself because the
truth is available through services like
this not knowing right you know you know
so much about this stuff so it's
endlessly fascinating is there is there
anything else that you want to add
before we go uh people need to look for
my book in September a lie too big to
fail the real history of the Robert
Kennedy assassination I have so much
data that is not in anyone else's book
that no one's talked about before it's
really gonna open people's eyes to what
really happened and I just I can't wait
to people talk about it openly glamp
keep it secret until about you know so
that the book will sell because if I
tell all the secrets in advance no no
buy the book right but oh my gosh I
can't wait to talk about that I know
there's a lot of people that are really
excited about it so when it's supposed
to come out in September is that all
right yes the fiftieth anniversary is in
June and I really tried to make that but
I just couldn't get it all right and you
know it's hard when you work full time
to you know write a book on the side
I've had no life they're like I'm
starting to enjoy life again three years
right well wish you a lot of a lot of
success with that and definitely look
forward to reading that when it comes
out so thanks again for talking about
all this stuff today yeah I really
appreciate it
thank you thank you
[Music]
this is our hidden history
you